# first-year-coding
Simulations, models, and visualizations from a first-year Physics, Economics & Mathematics student

Despite receiving a D+ in my introduction Python class at Drexel, I have been coding in Python, Java, and Go for years, even receiving a 5 on the AP CS A exam.
Since arriving at Drexel, I have been programming computational physics simulations, small Python assignments, and personal projects that can be employed in social equity research.

## Featured Project

### Displacement & Reverse Redlining in Philadelphia *(in progress)*
Data-driven interactive visualization of displacement, gentrification, and housing equity—- modern redlining --in Philadelphia. Uses demographic and historical housing data to explore patterns of systemic inequity. Inspired by the Mapping Inequality project.
N.B. I built this program to build off the research paper I submitted to Drexel's student research anthology in my Fall term. Both as someone from North Philadelphia and as a human, I think it is our responsibility to address the current process of gentrification and displacement in our home.
reverse_redlining.ipynb


## Physics Simulations
I made these in the following core Physics courses at Drexel: Contemporary Physics I, II, III, and Computational Physics I. These projects were developed using Jupyter Notebooks and VPython to model real physical systems. Jupyter allowed for interactive, step-by-step development, while VPython made it easy to animate and actually visualize 3D simulations.

### Einstein Solid Model
Simlates energy distribution in a two-particle Einstein solid using discrete energy quanta, Includes entropy calculations, multiplicity tracking, and optional plots to visualize system behavior over time.
- [einstein_solid.ipynb](./physics_simulations/einstein_solid.ipynb)

### E-Field Simulator
Simulates and models the electric field generated by a charged ring, disk, and parallel-plate capacitor using VPython. Users can click to set observation points and visualize the resulting field vectors.
(N.B. The simulation is slow and runs a little funky due to VPython's constraints. Could be further optimized to run more efficiently)
- [efield_simulator.ipynb](./physics_simulations/efield_simulator.ipynb)

### Three Body Problem
Numerically simulates the gravitational interaction between three celestial bodies. Users can click to set the inital position of the third body to begin the simulation.
- [three_body.ipynb](./physics_simulations/three_body.ipynb)

## Short Python Assignments
I coded a handful of short assignments in my intro Python class at Drexel, and although not very impressive, I figured I'd showcase some of the basic key concepts we covered.

### Moon Landing Game
A text-based physics game where players attempt to land safely on various planets with differing gravity values. The main challenge is managing velocity and fuel through user input in real-time. Designed to practice loops, conditionals, and user interaction while incorporating some application of practical and very, very basic physics concepts.
- [lander_game.py](./python_assignments/lander_game.py)

### Recipe Assistant
A utility that reads .csv files containing nutritional information and recipes to generate per-serving nutrition labels. The assignment focused on working with dictionaries, file I/O, and handling incomplete data gracefully.
- [recipe_assistant.py](./python_assignments/recipe_assistant.py)

## Personal Projects
As of right now, I am taking Computational Physics I and completing two to three more computational physics simulations every week in my core Physics course. I don't have any big plans for personal projects for the Spring term besides the displacement map, but we'll see what happens.

### Flappy Bird
A rough recreation of Flappy Bird. It features my own 3D models and incorporates realistic gravity (negligible drag and arbitrary impulse-based lift).
N.B. I made this during my Fall term to help familiarize myself with VPython.
- [flappy_bird.ipynb](./[personal_projects/flappy_bird.ipynb)

### The Game of War
A simple program that employs recursion to simulate the card game of War. The primary guideline of the assignment was to use recursion instead of game loops.
- [war.py](./python_assignments/war.py)

